Elements of the Zynq-7000 AP (All Programmable) SoC are described from the point of view of the PS. For example, a  general purpose slave interface on the PS to the PL means that the master resides in the PL. A high  performance slave interface means the high performance master resides in the PL. A general purpose  master interface means the PS is the master and the slave resides in the PL. (<u>specify direction base</u>) 

Snoop control unit (SCU) to maintain L1 and L2 coherency.

on-chip SRAM (OCM); general interrupt controller (GIC); 

# Supported I/O standards and Terminations

The following sections provide an overview of the I/O standards and options supported by all <u>7 series devices.</u>

## LVTTL (Low Voltage TTL)

LVTTL is a general-purpose EIA/JESD standard for 3.3V applications that uses a single-ended CMOS input buffer and a push-pull output buffer. This standard requires a 3.3V output source voltage (V<sub>CCO</sub>), but does not require the use of a reference voltage (V<sub>REF</sub>>) or a termination voltage (V<sub>TT</sub>). 

## LVCMOS (Low Voltage CMOS)

LVCMOS is a widely used switching standard implemented in CMOS transistors. 

# Signals, Interfaces, and Pins

## Power Pins

The PS and PL power supplies are fully independent, however the PS power supply must be present  whenever the PL power supply is active.

## MIO‐EMIO

# Application Processing Unit

The application processing unit (APU), located within the PS, contains two ARM Cortex A9 processors  with NEON co-processors (Arm Neon technology is an advanced Single Instruction Multiple Data (SIMD) architecture extension for the A-profile and R-profile processors.) that are connected in an MP configuration sharing a 512 KB L2 cache. Each  processor is a high-performance and low-power core that implements two separate 32 KB L1 caches for instruction and data. The Cortex-A9 processor implements the ARMv7-A architecture. In parallel to the L2 cache, there is a 256 KB on-chip memory  (OCM) module that provides a low-latency memory.

An Accelerator Coherency Port (ACP) facilitates communication between the programmable logic (PL)  and the APU. This 64-bit AXI interface allows the PL to implement an AXI master that can access the  L2 and OCM while maintaining memory coherency with the CPU L1 caches.
